In 1976 at 12 noon, I, Nancy Huber, interviewed
Mrs. Freda Box. She has been a resident of Bryan,
Texas proper since 1952, and she lived near Bryan
for the most part of her life. Mrs. Box is now
working at the Texas Agricultural Extension
Service on the Texas A&M campus in College
Station, Texas.
First of all, How long ago did your family come to
the area to bond? When I was eight years old. My
parents moved to, not in town, but out in the
country. In the country. Uh-huh. And where were
you born? Duval, Texas. Duval? Uh-huh. Duval,
Texas. What year? 1914. 1914. Um, why did your
family decide to move to this area?
Do you have a lot of relatives around here? No. My
immediate family is in this country. That was my
maiden name. Schultz? Uh-huh. German. Yes. Are
there a lot of German people around? I mean, of the
white people that are in this area, are they
German? Well, around the Curtin area, the
majority are German. Okay. Were
you born in your home or not in a hospital? Did the
doctor come to your house? He did. Okay. Do you have
any brothers or sisters? Yes, I have two sisters
and two brothers. And I guess you started school
here. Well, I'm in the little edge community. It's
about 20 miles out from Fulton-Grasses County.
From Grasses County. That's neat. And how did you
get there? I rode a little donkey with a neighbor
boy. You rode a donkey? Yeah. I mean, do most people
just get their horse or something? Well, horses
are buddies. I walked. If they were close enough,
they wouldn't have buses being out there. Yeah.
How far were you from the school? about four
months.
Four more people. That's interesting. What did
you, what kind of things did you do for leisure time
activities? Where did young people go to meet
other young people? Well, we had our community
gatherings, you know, little parties in the
house, mostly. And then at the schoolhouse we'd
have gatherings and programs. plays and stuff
like that more than they do now, I think. Yeah, I
guess the school was more of a... It was a means of
getting the people together again. Yeah. Um, was
there just one schoolhouse? How was the school set
up? Was it just one building with not one
classroom? I believe we had two buildings in our
school when I was... One teacher taught the whole
grade, too. They're not divided like they are now.
Each teacher had a room. Mm-hmm. They had that same
teacher all the way through
that year. What did you do on Sundays?
Well, most of the time, if we went to Sunday school
and then we'd gather with our friends, maybe walk
across the way to We'd be a bunch of us, get
together, we'd go walking in the Bluzard, I don't
know, highway or something, you know, maybe at one
of those homes. So it was kind of generally a kind of
get together. It was. More than now you have to work
or something. Kind of that. What kind of things did
you do on holidays, such as Easter, Thanksgiving,
was there any, Fourth of July, was there any kind of
community thing? Well, usually there'd be a
picnic on Fourth of July. just about everybody in
the community would go. It would be down on the
river bank or at the community center or somewhere
like that. Did they have fireworks? Some, but not
as much as they do now or in later years. Do you
recall any fads, anything, fashions that was the
thing to do? Any dances? What kind of dances did you
do? I didn't dance. I never danced. You never
danced? I mean, the kids around. Yeah, they did.
They did the Charleston and the waltz and stuff
like that. Was there a lot of country-western? I
don't
know. Folk and waltz music mostly, I imagine.
Yeah. I don't know too much about that. I don't know
too much about country-western, so. Okay.
Could you tell me about your first job and what kind
of pay you had? Well, when I was growing up, you
know, the working public jobs, all we did then was
maybe help somebody in the fields or somewhere.
The week before I married, I worked one whole week
to make enough money to buy my wedding dress. We got
50 cents a day and worked from sunup to sundown.
What kind of work did you do? I worked in corn. I was
out in the cornfield all by myself that whole week.
Wow. When did you get married?
1936. 1936. And where did you and your husband
live? We lived out there for a while, and later we
had moved to Houston when the war came on. Ah, you
moved to Houston. Okay. We lived there three
years. People were going to shoot me in those
years. Was that your reason
for
moving to Houston? For the job or what? Well, I
don't know. It was just a good opportunity for us.
Pretty good pay. More than we've been, like, you
know, a farm or something. Yeah. Your family then,
your father, I guess, you were farmers? Uh-huh.
And what kind of things, you know, corn, I guess,
what else? Corn, cotton, and vegetables, of
course. Maybe some hay and peanuts. Mm-hmm. You
didn't just, you know, you sold a lot of this stuff.
You didn't just, it wasn't just for your family,
right? We sold what come and a lot of corn too. But
then the vegetables and stuff like that. The hay
was for our own use. For your own use. If you can. But
we just wanted a small scale of what the family
could do. Yeah. You know, you don't have big farms
generally like you do now. How
many acres ? We might have farmed about 60 or 70,
something like that. What changes have you
noticed? OK, so you went to Houston. You were there
for three years. That was during the war.
Everybody was called in to register them. But he
had family. He was a little older than the general
draft age, too, so it would get what it gets for him.
During the Depression, what kind of things do you
remember? Would it be as hard to get, you know,
food, appliances? Some of it said, you know, it was
really difficult to get appliances. Did you have
any troubles like that? I don't guess we had very
many of them back then, honey, except the icebox.
Yeah. We didn't have electricity or anything
then. We just laid out in the forehead. Yeah. So I
don't really know. Of course, we raised a lot of our
food, so we really never did suffer from food like a
lot of people did. Yeah. So you were, generally
speaking, as far as just surviving, you were a
lot better off than a lot of people? Yes, we were. We
were black for food or, you know, the comforts of
home. Yeah, right. Okay, did people used to travel
a lot to other towns? Well, first of all, when did
you move back to the San Diego? After the war, in
about 44. About 44. Well, I didn't go to the course
to eventually get paid. When I was just a job, well,
they'd travel in a wagon or a buggy when they wanted
to go somewhere. Of course, that would maybe like
to know how to chill, come to town once in a while.
But about the extent of your travels, We could go
visit relatives or something in another town.
Yeah, yeah. And what were, what different towns
did, you know, people go to? I mean, what other
towns were, you know, kind of a big place to go? We
went to Houston sometimes because we had
relatives there. We went to Elkhart and
Palestine. That's where my husband's family
lived. So, mostly he went where he went visiting,
you know, rather than sightseeing it. Just on
vacations like you
do now. Have you ever been out of Texas? Oh, yes. I
went on several vacation trips. We went on through
the north and the northwest. I've never been east.
I've been to Kansas City. You just went on
vacation? Yes. Do you have any children? Yes, we
have six children.
They are all grown and married. Were they raised in
this area? Yes. They are all brought in schools.
Okay, you came back to this area after you moved to
Houston, after the loan. Did you, were you then
moved, did you move into Brown? No, not directly.
We still moved back to Edge Farm three years. Then
we moved into the Tabor community. We lived out
there about three years. And in 1951, we moved into
Brown. I see. Why did you go into the Tabor
community? Well, it was just, we bought a little
farm out there. We sued for truck farming. That's
what we wanted to do. They
started being like with their paper wraps and
stuff like that. It was more convenient to move to
town. I started working in town. I had heard that
New Tabor at one time was a really prosperous
place. I don't know if that was when you were there
or any more. It was Tabor, no. Not New Tabor? No. Ah,
okay. Exactly, like five, six miles to the north.
And what area of Brownie did you stay on when you
turned 51? On Sandy Point Road, we waged 25th, and I
still live in that same house. Really? I lost my
husband four years ago. One of my boys lives with
me, but he's not married at the time. Yeah. So have
your children mainly stayed in the area or moved
on? Well, one lives in Colorado and one family
lives in Dallas. One of the boys lives in Camp
Creek. He's postman from my area. He comes in to
work every day. One daughter and one son live here
in town. So they generally stayed in the area.
Close, yes. Yeah. Okay. Um, going
back to
the, well, I was thinking, I had already talked
about the world, okay, but Do you remember things
that people did for the war to contribute to, you
know, the effort? Whether, I don't know, you know,
just a real simple example is like we, I think my
parents, you know, they separate their trash and
stuff with cans and bottles and everything like
that. It could be, you know, or they just, you know,
or women going and working in factories or
whatever. Well, I did, I did,
because
I had as much of a loss for all of that at that time. We
bought war bonds. What was the advantage of war
bonds? Well, if you kept them so long, you got, you
know, you made an interest on them, it was like you
were doing a savings account. You could still buy
savings bonds, you know. They'd take it out of your
salary, and then you'd I always
hear these things, but I guess unless you're even
part of it, you don't know that. Okay, do you recall
anything from like presidential elections,
campaigns, who the people voted, or anything? Not
really. I remember real well when Pastor
Roosevelt Was he pretty popular
with the people through this whole
administration? He was kind of like
President Kennedy. Everybody liked him. He died
when it was a shock to me. Yeah, it was really
shocking. We're
starting to lose it. Were there any great
disasters, like floods? Not necessarily great
disasters, but things that really affected the
community. Floods, tornadoes, droughts? Well,
there were droughts, yes. Sometimes we formed in
the river bottom in the same volume where we had big
rains that would flood our farmland, maybe
destroy our crops. Usually it would be early in the
spring or maybe in the fall after the cotton and
stuff was made and they were just about ready.
Several times I remember they would get that water
covered the whole field. And since you just
farmed, so you really didn't have things to go back
on. back then. They used to do the merchants would
help the farmers, you know, they could borrow
money to live on the farm with them. Then when they
made money, they would pay
it back. Sometimes you'd go in debt for a year. If
you had a good year, you'd pay up. Do you remember I
guess when we lived in the city of Vine, things,
racial things, or even outside, like this area was
primarily blacks, and were there a lot, I don't
know about Vine, really. Well, yeah, they were
divided, but I mean, most blacks lived over on the
west and northwest side, which they still do to a
big extent. But there wasn't any trouble when they
started upgrading the schools, like there was a
lot of places. I want to say some of the kids might
have gotten scuffles or something like that, but
there wasn't anything to do over it,
you know, between the citizens and all. What
prompted them to go ahead and integrate? Was it a
cold order? It was an impulsory thing. It was an
impulsory thing. What was that? Six or eight years
ago,
I don't know what everybody came to. What about
Mexicans? Are there
a lot in this area? Yes, quite a few. Well, I guess
over on the west side and south side there's more,
but they're kind of mingling with the other people
more or less now. They know more than they used to
be. They used to
come in here from Mexico to do farm work instead.
They can't do that anymore. So those that live here
just work somewhere I would be. There's not too
much people working in the highway department.
operating equipment or even jobs on the campus and
stuff like that, just like everybody else. Yeah. I
was going to ask you, what big changes have you seen
in the technology of farming? I mean, there are a
lot, but what have you noticed? Well, there's not
very many small farms like we've had anymore. I
mean, it's got soil, you know, expensive to farm.
They may have to farm on a big scale. And the farming
has gone to the big farmers where it used to be these
little plots here and there. The people that most
of them that lived on these little farms have moved
to town because they couldn't make a living on
these little farms. Was farming, you say, on a
small farm? It was mainly a family thing, and then
whatever extra they had there. What impact do you
think this university has had on the growth and
development of the area? It's responsible for
just the biggest part of the growth, because it
brings so many people in here and gets work to so
many others, too.
I feel like it's just about a half of us. Has put you
on the map, maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Did you notice, you
know, when the university turned to co-ed, was
there any reaction to that, good or bad? Oh, some
thought they didn't like for the girls to come
here, but it didn't make any difference. Yeah.
What type of changes
have you noticed in the landscape, like roads,
ground roads, and transportation? Of course, the
roads have built up a lot, and we've got lots of new
streets in our town since it has grown so much. Not
all roads were fixed. Like 29th Street, it was just
a very old road, even until about 15 years ago. I
imagine they just fixed it a little later. That's a
part of town. Yeah, that's pretty much a man. Any
railways that you have? Well, I don't expect the
railroads are even as busy as they were in those
days, because they didn't want to work by rail. And
they stopped the passenger trains. The freight
trains come through now. The same tracks we always
had. Did people travel a lot on the passenger
trains? They used to. What big
differences do you see, like
when
you were raised and things you used to do, and when
you raised your children? We
always lived out where our children had room to
roam around. I think it has a lot to do with the way
children are now. They're so cooped up. They don't
feel free to go to places like our children did
then. Nobody cared for hunting or fishing or just
roaming over the place. And now, if you get off of
the highways or your own place, well, you're
trespassing it.
So they had more freedom to work off their energy, I
think, that may be one reason for the restlessness
in children now, I feel like it is. And what kind of,
what like with the radio? Did you use to,
did you have radio when you were young? No, when I
was a child and ever since I've been there, I've
just come out with my radio. And you used to listen
to the... We used to listen to music. We used to
listen to stories on radio before we got
a TV. Yeah? What, what, do you recall any that were
popular on radio? The O.H.B. Yeah. Really? like
gangbusters and things like that.
You know, you take these stories, these stories
take a lot of things. Yeah. What about television
when it came into the area? I mean, what did people
think of, you know, television personally? Well,
at first it was kind of scattered, few and far
between. They were just people that were more, I
guess, wealthier people or...
you know, what are the good circumstances
could afford them for the virus to have been a weird
species when they first came out. Do you remember
when just the idea of it was that people said, and I
think that was really strange, like to me I think
talking on the telephone and seeing somebody is
really weird. I don't know. Do you have friends or
relatives that have moved away from the area for
any particular reason, maybe economic or, you
know, because there wasn't enough here or they
have moved
into the area because they just want to go
somewhere else?
All
of my
family was
German. My brothers and sisters. They all married
German boys, but me, I married an American boy. I
really messed things up for them. Was your husband
from Germany? No, my husband wasn't German.
Excuse me, I'm saying the others. My grandparents
came from
Germany. But of course my mother dated people.
They were from South Texas. Which area in South
Texas? Over in Victoria
and Yoakum and down in that area. You know, my
relatives on my mother's side were German.
They're in Edmond and Yocum and all that area. You
know, Edmond is right near Victoria. I
still have relatives in Yocum. The rice is in
Yocum. I know why, but I have relatives in Yocum.
That's interesting. So I miss a lot of Germany.
This area has a lot of Germans. I believe it's, most
of the people down there, I believe it's kind of a
German settlement.
Okay, well, I
think that's all I have to say right now, Ms. Fox.
I'd like to thank you very much for coming and
taking this time out of your lunchtime to talk with
me and get this interview. I appreciate it. Thank
you.